Package consolidation (#65)
tuva-health/the_tuva_project: README.md

# The Tuva Project

## 🔗  Quick Links
- [Knowledge Base](https://thetuvaproject.com/): Learn about claims data fundamentals and how to do claims data analytics
- [Docs](https://tuva-health.github.io/the_tuva_project/#!/overview): Learn about the Tuva Project data model

<br/><br/>

## 🧰  What is the Tuva Project?

> The Tuva Project a package that clean and transform healthcare claims data so that it's ready for analytics. Currently, the Tuva Project consists of the following 7 dbt packages, each of which is a separate GitHub repository.  This repository is the main dbt package you use to run any one or all of the packages below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tuva Project is a package that cleans and transforms healthcare claims data so that it's ready for analytics.
```

- [data_profiling](https://thetuvaproject.com/data-marts/data-profiling/about): Runs data quality tests to check for common problems specific to healthcare claims data.
- [claims_preprocessing](https://thetuvaproject.com/data-marts/claims-preprocessing/about): Groups overlapping claims into a single encounter, assigns every claim to 1 of 15 different encounter types and populates core data tables.
- [chronic_conditions](https://thetuvaproject.com/data-marts/chronic-conditions/about): Two different chronic condition groupers based on ICD-10-CM codes, one using grouping methodology defined by CMS, and another developed by Tuva. 
- [pmpm](https://thetuvaproject.com/data-marts/pmpm/about): Calculates spend and utilization metrics for your patient population on a per-member-per-month (pmpm) basis.
- [readmissions](https://thetuvaproject.com/data-marts/readmissions/about): Calculates hospital readmission measures based on CMS methodology.

> - [terminology](https://thetuvaproject.com/terminology/about): Makes the latest version of many useful healthcare terminology datasets available as tables in your data warehouse. This package is different from the others because it does not build healthcare concepts on top of your data.

Reviewer: We should delete this section or maybe update it to talk about these as data marts.

Author: I changed the verbiage to models and left it in with some tweaks, and added core

### Step 1: Map Your Claims Data to the Tuva Claims Data Model

See our [Quickstart Guide](https://thetuvaproject.com/quickstart) for detailed instructions.

> The first step is mapping your claims data to the Tuva Claims Data Model.  You can map your claims data to the Tuva Claims Data Model yourself (i.e. by writing SQL inside your dbt project).  Or if you have Medicare CCLF or Medicare SAF (LDS) claims data you can use our connectors, which are separate repos that you can find on our GitHub page.  You need to create each of the tables in the Tuva Claims Data Model as models within your dbt project so that the Tuva Project dbt package can reference them using ref() functions.

Reviewer: Are we calling it the "Tuva Claims Data Model" or the "Tuva Input Layer"? The latter is how they can find the data dictionary in the docs.

Author: All of that should really change... We have a new tiny mart currently called "Input Layer" which selects from the User Defined Models and explicitly casts each column to the correct data type. Its the source of truth for the table definitions they need to map to and is driving the column definitions Input Layer section of the docs site, but technically the input layer isn't what they're building, they're building the input to the input layer.

This is not clear in the docs... the docs makes it seem like you map to the input layer.  I would be confused as a user.

Not going to try and solve that in the readme just yet. tagging @aneiderhiser
